# Calendar of Events

<a href="https://aaronpinero.github.io/calevents/college.calevents.html">Demo in Github Pages</a>

A calendar display of events that takes UX cues from the Calendar app on iOS and the Google Calendar web app.

The HTML comes from a Drupal 7 view of event nodes by way of <a href="https://www.10bestdesign.com/dirtymarkup/">DirtyMarkup</a>. The intent is to use this calendar display in a Drupal theme, but it could also be used in other contexts. The repository includes an exported Drupal 7 view that was used to generate the HTML for this example.

## Source

The original inspiration for this comes from <a href="https://codepen.io/peanav">Codepen.io</a> along with <a href="https://codepen.io/aaronpinero/pen/qLWXpM">my own forked version</a>. 

The original widget will be enhanced in the following ways by this project:

- responsive design with a full desktop view
- fallback for no JavaScript
- fallback for no CSS
- event data is scraped from HTML (and not supplied as JSON) to create the array of event data; this allows the no-JavaScript fallback
- date-range limited based on available event data
- toggle between calendar view and list view

## Rationale

Traditional web calendars use HTML table layouts to simulate a printed calendar. Within each cell, event times and names are presented. These displays are either visually uneven (since not all days have events) or waste considerable space with large blank cells for days with no events. The table-based displays are also not mobile friendly. If responsiveness is even considered, the usual solution is to have the display degrade to a simple event list, leaving no calendar view option.

This project improves on these calendars by drawing on UI patterns from iOS and Google, creating a responsive display of events that offers list and calendar displays for both desktop and mobile. The efficient design allows a viewer to easily see an overview of a month, then drill down to see the detail for a specific day.

## Data Structure

The Javascript that enables the calendar view scrapes the page's HTML for event data, storing it in an object. The expected HTML structure identifying a single event is:

```html
<div class="calevent">
  <div class="time" data-date-start="[ISO 8601 event date]">
    <span class="date-display-single"><span class="date-display-range"><span class="date-display-start">[event start time]</span> to <span class="date-display-end">[event end time]</span></span></span>
  </div>
  <h4><a href="[event link]">[event title]</a></h4>
</div>
```

For all day events, the structure is:

```html
<div class="calevent">
  <div class="time" data-date-start="[ISO 8601 event date]">
    <span class="date-display-single">(All day)</span>
  </div>
  <h4><a href="[event link]">[event title]</a></h4>
</div>
```

Quirks of the structure are due to the fact that it is generated by Drupal. The structure could be simplified.

## Design

The .sketch file of the origin design concept is included in the repository.

